>> Erik Reinert: So let's factor in when
you should use back-end architecture
designs, right?
So the first factor of
an architecture design should really
be the project requirements, right?
The functionality, performance, security,
and scalability needs of the project.
You should be able to answer these
questions really before you even start
making a design.
This is part of the technical
design approach,
which is thinking about the problem
you're trying to solve.
And I do talk about this in the DevOps for
developers course as well,
which we call it hippo,
the 3 W's, who, what and
why, really first is who,
who am I solving this problem for, right?
If you're not solving the problem for
a specific part of the company,
then who really benefits from it, right?
What is the problem you're
trying to solve, right?
If you don't know the problem you're
trying to solve, and you don't know
who you're solving it for, maybe it's
not as valuable as you think it is.
And then why you're trying to solve
that problem is really important.
So these project requirements
can help you before you even
start designing things on how you
can get to where you want to.
This is another big one, team expertise,
we talked about this earlier where
maybe you're a complete go shop, right?
But some reason you saw
somebody who uses Rust,
so now you're really interested into Rust,
right?
Selling that, even though you might
need to, can be very difficult, right?
And so you need to consider
the factors of the experience and
the skill set of the development team
that you're working with, right?
I'm sure each of us at our companies have
that one weird system that some person
made and then left and
now you have no idea how to manage it.
This is a prime example of that, where the
team doesn't understand it but the person
who did do it does and now it's this black
box that nobody can maintain, right?
Team expertise is crucial,
don't do that team to your teammates,
[LAUGH] like just don't,
eventually you might have the opportunity
to do the thing that you want, right?
But again, if it's something that's so
out of left field that nobody can
relate to it, nobody can understand it,
it might not be a good thing to
incorporate into your design.
Budget, so we were just talking about
open source and vendor lock-in and
things like that, right?
Considering your budget,
whether it be engineering hours, right?
How many developers
are gonna be on the project?
How much time are they gonna be
working on the project, right?
That's really important,
those are resources as well.
Guys, developers are resources, okay,
[LAUGH] I don't know how many times I have
to say that, but they are,
nothing is free.
Nothing is free.
You might think that open
source software is free.
No, it's not, you have to maintain it.
You have to be able to support it,
right, that costs.
And sometimes as crazy as it sounds,
it might be easier to lock into a vendor
because they have good pricing.
Now they have an on demand
pricing that's easy to use, and
they also take care of the management
of the system for you, right?
So budget is a huge part of it and just
another side story at Hippo where I work,
we've had situations in the past
where people have come to me and
been like, yeah,
I've only got like a $500 budget.
And I'm like, so
you're gonna do like one thing then
because [LAUGH] that's not a lot.
But it is then going and saying, okay,
you don't have a lot of a budget.
Where can you allocate those resources so
that you're using the most of your time,
right?
Or using the most of your budget or
whatever towards valuable time.
So again, it's not just cloud costs and
things like that.
It's also making sure that
you're considering how
much effort you're gonna
be putting into it.
Time constraints Is a big one, right?
As I said earlier with regards to
exploration and things like that,
if you've only got a week
to build a project,
don't spend five out of
those seven days exploring.
[LAUGH] That's probably not a good idea.
I've definitely done that before,
but I've seen a lot of developers
fail at time constraints, constraining
yourself to again, time boxes so
that you're not overly complicating
the system or you're not making it so
that it takes too long to implement.
Having good time constraints and having
good structure around that can help you
build things faster, help you iterate
quicker, and help you even come back and
maybe do it again a different
way the next time.
Project size and complexity, right?
A good example of that,
again is like the the blog and Kubernetes.
You don't need a massive
system to run a very simple
problem that you're trying to solve,
right?
The larger the project and more complex
may benefit from certain systems, but
smaller projects may benefit
from not even using a system.
And again, we're gonna be talking
about this later on in the course with
the different systems or architectures
that we'll be discussing, and
why it may just be simple
to avoid all of it.
Seriously, it's okay to avoid all
of that complexity if it means
that you're getting to market sooner,
that you have an opportunity to
get it into the users hands.
And I'll be real with you.
Kubernetes is great but if you've
only got one user, it doesn't matter.
[LAUGH] Like it really doesn't so project
size and complexity is really Important.
Maintenance, again,
we've talked about this a lot, right?
How long is it gonna take you to maintain
this thing that you're building, right?
If you're creating something and
then you gotta be like, okay,
now we've gotta set up pager duty for
alerts on off hours and stuff like that,
nobody's gonna look forward to that.
I don't look forward to that.
I am on a pager duty, and I hate it
[LAUGH] but I maintain those systems and
we built them in a way where if the front
end goes down because we decided to
not be serverless or things like that.
Then I'm in charge of that I
have to consider that, right?
And that's a part of it
is how easy is it for
you to maintain the system
that you're creating?
Another good example of that is,
before I started
working at Hippo,
we have one service called POD.
It's a very monolithic application.
It basically predates when
the actual company was created and
I found out through
research that we actually
spent more time and
literal CPU resources on tests
in PRS than we did on
our production cluster.
So literally we're spending
more time managing our like
we were basically a CI company.
I literally walked into a meeting one day
and I said you guys realize that we're
basically just a CI company with
a front end and they were like what?
And I was like yeah like we have thousands
of cores being provisioned daily just
to do tests and
our cluster doesn't even scale this much.
Why are we spending so
much time on testing?
And now we're at a point to where it's
like fractions of what it used to be.
And that's really important is
having that maintenance control and
understanding how easy
it is to maintain it.
Considering technological choices as well,
right?
Keeping track of the latest technological
trends can influence the choice of
the system design.
Be weary with these trends, right?
I'm not saying here that you should
follow all the latest trends and
just adapt to them.
What I'm saying is you should
be aware of them, right?
It's a good thing to know the potential
things that you can do in the future,
things like serverless,
things like microservices, events buses,
things like that.
But it's also good to understand when
you shouldn't use those things, right?
Event bus might sound cool, but if you
don't understand how event systems work,
you could really be shooting
yourself in the foot pretty quickly.
And then going back to maintenance, how
do you maintain that event system, right?
If you don't have good understanding
of those technological choices,
they can hurt you as well as help you.
This one's huge, and
I never see a lot of people doing this,
which is user feedback, right?
Actually talking to your users and
asking their experience.
You might not think that the architecture
somehow relates to them,
but it does, right?
Because what users might be dealing with
might be because of your architecture,
right?
It might be because you designed
something in a specific way.
And so because of that they're
seeing lagged responses or
they're seeing more challenges
in the user experience.
And things like that because you didn't
consider a lot of times I've seen people
just be like,
just throw a loader on it, it's fine.
[LAUGH] That's not always a good solution.
Your users don't like to wait,
especially in the year of 2024.
User's like the attention span of
a user now is like seven seconds.
If you can't get a response within like
five to seven seconds, they're out,
they're done.
They're like this feels slow because we've
become accustom to that user experience.
I'm sure if you guys are scrolling
on apps or things like that and
a video doesn't load, you just skip.
You don't care what that,
that could have been a really cool thing,
but because it didn't load in time and
because you didn't think about that,
that could be an impact and
a consideration.
As a matter of fact, I actually do think,
one company that does a really,
really, really good job
of this is Netflix,
because Netflix constantly
considers like the user experience?
Has anyone noticed that, like nowadays,
when you log into Netflix,
sometimes you don't even
need to use your password?
That's because I actually to
go back to the interview part.
I was actually interviewing at Netflix,
and I was going to work on
that system that was going to make it so
that they could figure out and
authenticate you without actually
having to authenticate you.
They could look at things like your
IP address, where you're coming from,
your network, things like that.
And that was enough to have
a score of being like, okay,
this is the person we expect them to be,
let's get them into the platform quicker.
So, I do think Netflix does
a really good job of user feedback.
Market trends,
this is kind of circumstantial,
but if you work in finance, for example,
considerations of how
financial structures change.
For example I work in
an insurance company, right?
Every year we have to redefine our plans,
our rates for specific states.
There's different rates that we
can provide and things like that.
And we have to follow market trends for
that.
Understanding when things
are going to change and
you having to follow that
flow is really important.
Because if you're not considering that,
that might go back to how easy it is to
maintain that system even
from a developer standpoint.
And to give you an example of this,
I don't know why, but
a long time ago, we decided that
everything should be in JSON files.
All of our rate plans
should be in JSON files.
And now we have thousands [LAUGH] of
JSON files that we have to maintain.
And I'm actually working on a project
right now at my job to figure out how to
make that easier for developers because
our rate changes go years back.
We need like we have to keep that data.
We can't change it, it's immutable, right?
But because the market changes,
because there might be more storms
in Texas versus California.
We have to change those and these become
thousands and thousands of snapshots
that unfortunately, we didn't
really consider where we are today,
how much of a challenge that would be.
And the last one is legal and
regulatory requirements.
So, we don't really deal with this
a ton in America just because we
love selling personal data.
But again, if you work in Europe,
right, or other parts of the world,
you might have other personal data
requirements on how to store that data,
how to share that data, right?
The whole do not sell my information.
That little button alone can
be an entire system of, okay,
how do we make sure that this information
doesn't get leaked, or get exposed, or
get resold or things like that.
So compliance with laws and
regulations may dictate the kind of system
that you create and how you create it.